{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red251\green2\blue7;\red251\green2\blue7;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12120\viewh9000\viewkind1
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 Troubleshooting Dante
\f1\b0 \
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf0 NOTE:  Device List is the main way to check if a device is being discovered on the console, and can be found via Setup / IO Device > Dante Setup.  Then click on any slot, and in the window that opens, tab to Device List.  Check sync per device in IO Device.
\f1\i0 \
\
First of all, make sure you test your PA, lights, and video (as applicable) upon arrival, and make sure you line check inputs before band arrival or in place of a soundcheck.  Just because the band isn\'92t sound checking doesn\'92t mean we don\'92t check our system.  We should always stay calm, but not fully relaxed until we verify our system.\
\
When first realizing a problem, try the obvious, followed by the simple, before pursuing a lengthier troubleshooting process - at which point you should warn the team you have a problem and could use any time they can buy you.  Immediately implement a temporary solution if needed to keep things rolling, while continuing to isolate and fix the root problem (really there is no problem, just buying time for a better solution).\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf0 NOTE - If you are getting two solid green lights under sync in IO Device for the Rio, it is working, and your problem is not a Dante sync issue.  Check your Dante patch and make sure it is correct.  If it is not, your quickest fix would be to load the Dante Controller preset in the AV folder.
\f1\i0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\cf3 Establish a baseline of functionality, isolate problems:\cf0 \

\f0\b CONNECT DIRECTLY FROM THE CONSOLE TO THE RIO.  
\f1\b0 Eliminate all other issues.
\f0\b \
ALWAYS TRY TURNING OFF - ON.  
\f1\b0 Power cycle is the most common fix, then reseat.
\f0\b \
REFRESH THE CONNECTIONS.  
\f1\b0 I/O Device > Dante Setup > Refresh.
\f0\b  
\f1\b0 If they don\'92t sync in < 30 sec, move to the next step.\

\f0\b CHECK BASIC SETTINGS.
\f1\b0   Setup > Word Clock: Dante 48K selected, blue light.  Dante Setup > Preferred Master \'93ON\'94.  Setup > Network > For Device Control: AUTO IP\

\f0\b CLEAR ALL DEVICES.  
\f1\b0 I/O Device > Dante Setup > Clear All.
\f0\b \
INSERT DEVICES BEGINNING WITH RIO.
\f1\b0   Click on the first slot, tab over to Device List, and scroll to the device with blue letters \'93
\f0\b \cf2 (Rio3224-D2)
\f1\b0 \cf0 \'93, which means it has been identified and is ready to link.  Once that is connected for stage I/O, do the same for the PA outputs: \'93
\f0\b \cf2 (MTX5-D)
\f1\b0 \cf0 \'94
\f0\b . 
\f1\b0 Wait 30-60 seconds for the connections to reestablish.  If they don\'92t show up, move on to the next step.
\f0\b \
SEE IF BOTH DEVICES SHOW UP ON DANTE CONTROLLER.  
\f1\b0 Computer connected to an open port with both devices connected, Dante Controller open.\

\f0\b TEST YOUR CABLES.  
\f1\b0 Don\'92t go further without knowing your cables are good.  Use a digital cat5 tester that holds intermittent bad connections, or use a new/known good cable if testing is not a possibility (we always have a cable tester in house).\

\f0\b DISABLE SHARED DANTE INTERFACES. 
\f1\b0 Dante Controller > File > Interfaces: uncheck the box.  Yamaha techs don\'92t fully understand this feature, but it is known to cause problems.  It should be unchecked as of my last update on July 29, 2024.\

\f0\b CHECK DANTE PORTS.
\f1\b0   Use Dante Controller to see if device is discoverable via Primary and Secondary Dante ports on each device (with WiFi off).\

\f0\b CALL YAMAHA.  
\f1\b0 M-F 11a-8p ECT.  866-211-9366.  Thai, Jeremy, Desmond, Jonathan.
\f0\b \
\
THIS COULD TAKE A WHILE\'85 TALK TO THE TEAM AND PIVOT IF NEEDED\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 If the ports are confirmed working, a direct connection is established, both devices are showing up on Dante Controller, and a connection is still not happening, it may be possible that someone did a hardware reset on the Rio and left the sample rate at 96kHz, although it would be highly irresponsible to do a hardware reset without reestablishing a connection.  To see if this is the case, as unlikely as it is and assuming you are now covering all extreme possibilities, connect to the Rio with the computer and open R Remote.   Ensure all the following settings are correct:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}To connect, make sure to check the Network Setup in R Remote and connect to the 169.254.x.x address. \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Network Setup IP address should match front panel Device Information IP (this is \'93Control\'94 IP address, as there is another IP for Dante).  \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}In R Remote > Device Information: set sample rate to 48kHz.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 On the face of the Rio:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Network mode set to Auto\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Mode set to Daisy Chain\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Device ID set to Y00E (shows up as #11 in R Remote)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In Dante Controller:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}In Dante Controller > Device Config: make sure the naming is exactly \'93
\f0\b Y00E-Monitor-3224
\f1\b0 \'94 for the presets to recognize it.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
If you tried all the above and they are still not syncing, save the console scenes to a flash drive (plug it in and the flash drive directory will pop up, or go to Setup > Save/Load, then hit SAVE and confirm under the ALL tab, which saves all libraries and scenes), remove the flash drive, unplug Dante, and do a hardware reset on the console.  The way to do it is as follows:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}QL5 - hold Master A and B \'93Select\'94 buttons while booting 
\f1\b0 (or just Master B)
\f0\b \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}CL5 - hold Left and Up buttons while booting 
\f1\b0 (or just the \'93Store\'94 button)\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b0 Afterwards, do a reboot, load the saved console back, and with Dante Controller connected, the Rio connected directly to the console, and one of the open ports connected to a wall Dante input, reload the Dante Controller presets file.  Confirm on the console that inputs and outputs are assigned.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Once connection is established, restore the connections from console to wall Dante port, from Rio to wall Dante port, and with Dante Controller connected, see if console and Rio are both visible before attempting to connect\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf4 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
DEFAULT SETTINGS
\f1\b0 \cf0 \
Ensure Dante settings are correct on console and Rio.  There are Dante Controller preset files in the fetchable GitHub AV folder as well as screenshots of the correct setup for all devices (as of 08-04-2024).  The following are our City Winery \'93correct\'94 Dante settings, if not standard requirements:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Note if the firmware on the Rio is the same as on the console.  You can see the Rio firmware on the front panel (press <\'97 and \'97> together to scroll, then select \'93System\'94, and the Dante Firmware version is the first 4 numbers.  On the console, this info is under \'93Setup\'94.  Having different or not up to date firmware is likely 
\f0\b \ul not
\f1\b0 \ulnone  the reason for the problem, but would be good to know.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Make sure the Rio is set to DAISY CHAIN, Network mode in AUTO, and that the device ID on the main indoors Rio is \'93Y00E\'94 with the correct naming for preset recall (Dante Controller - double click Device > Device Configuration):  \'93
\f0\b Y00E-Monitor-Rio3224
\f1\b0 \'94\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}On Rio, R Remote Network Setup IP address should match front panel Device Information IP (this is \'93Control\'94 IP address, as there is another IP for Dante)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}On console Setup > Dante Setup: make sure console is selected is Preferred Leader (if only using one console, or make sure only one console has this selected), and make sure the secondary port is set to DAISY CHAIN.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}On console Setup > Word Clock: Dante 48K should be selected w/the light blue.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}On console Setup > Network > For Device Control: set to AUTO IP.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
3 - Firmware updates, general info\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}After an update to the firmware, a hardware reset is recommended\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}An 8GB flash drive formatted to FAT32 is not good enough, it needs to be formatted with Master Boot Record, and may default to GUID, or have some other issue.  Have several 8GB drives available if you are attempting an update.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}For console updates, just put the primary files on the flash drive and not in directories, with nothing else on the drive.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}If firmware was recently updated or a hardware reset was done on the Rio, the sample rate could be 96kHz, which can only be changed in Dante Controller > double click device > Dante View > Device Config > make 48kHz.  Consoles do not support higher sample rates.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Unplug all other Dante when running an update\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}On the consoles, insert the flash drive and boot the console, you\'92ll see a prompt\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}On the Rio, you need to update via R Remote (Tool > Update Firmware)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Never update the MTX5D until the project files is saved, and AVLX (installation company on contract) should ideally be the ones to do this.\
\ls7\ilvl0
\f0\b \ul \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf0 \ulc0 TO DO 
\f1\b0 \ulnone \
Rename the Rio as what it would normally come up as after a hardware reset to eliminate the problem of a rename to get presets to click if a hardware reset is necessary during an event.  Save updated preset and update the GitHub AV folder.\
\
Improve this document.  }